# Release history
-----------------

<a name="v4141"></a>
### Version 4.14.1

* Fixed an installation issue with `conda`.


<a name="v4140"></a>
### Version 4.14.0

* Refactor of the [Cleaner][] and [Vectorizer][] classes.
* Refactor of the [cross_validate][adaboost-cross_validate] method.
* The [plot_pipeline][] method now supports drawing multiple pipelines.
* Renamed the `Normalizer` class to `TextNormalizer`.
* Renamed the `Gauss` class to `Normalizer`.
* Added the `inverse_transform` method to the [Scaler][], [Normalizer][]
  and [Cleaner][] classes.
* Added the `winners` property to the trainers (note the extra `s`). 
* Added the `feature_names_in_` and `n_features_in_` attributes to transformers.
* The default value of the `warnings` parameter is set to False.
* Improvements for multicollinearity removal in [FeatureSelector][].
* Renamed default feature names to `x0`, `x1`, etc... for consistency with
  sklearn's API.
* Renamed component names in [FeatureSelector][]
  to `pca0`, `pca1`, etc... for consistency with sklearn's API.
* Significant speed up in pipeline transformations.
* Fixed a bug where mlflow runs could be ended unexpectedly.


<a name="v4131"></a>
### Version 4.13.1

* Fixed an installation issue.


<a name="v4130"></a>
### Version 4.13.0

* Added GPU support. Read more in the [user guide][gpu-acceleration].
* Added [advanced feature selection][advanced-strategies] strategies.
* Added the `return_sparse` parameter to the [Vectorizer][] class.
* Added the `quantile` hyperparameter to the [Dummy][] model.
* The data attributes now return pandas objects where possible.
* Fixed a bug where the BO could crash after [balancing][balancing-the-data]
  the data.
* Fixed a bug where saving the [FeatureGenerator][]
  class could fail for certain operators.
* Fixed a bug where the [FeatureSelector][]
  class displayed the wrong output.
* Fixed a bug where the `mapping` attribute was not reordered.


<a name="v4120"></a>
### Version 4.12.0

* Support for [Python 3.10](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-3100/).
* New [Discretizer][] class to bin numerical features.
* Refactor of the [FeatureGenerator][] class.
* The `mapping` attribute now shows all encoded features.
* Added the `sample_weight` parameter to the [evaluate][adaboost-evaluate] method.
* [ATOMClassifier][] has now a `stratify` parameter
  to split the data sets in a [stratified fashion](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Stratified_sampling).
* Possibility to exclude hyperparameters from the BO adding `!` before the name.
* Added memory usage to the [stats][atomclassifier-stats] method.
* Fixed a bug where [plot_shap_decision][] could fail when only one row was plotted.
* Added versioning to the documentation.


<a name="v4110"></a>
### Version 4.11.0

* Full support for sparse matrices. Read more in the [user guide][sparse-datasets].
* The [shrink][atomclassifier-shrink] method now also handles sparse features.
* Refactor of the [distributions][atomclassifier-distributions] method.
* Added three new linear models: [Lars][], [Huber][huberregression] and [Perc][perceptron].
* Dimensions can be shared across models using the key 'all' in `ht_params["dimensions"]`.
* Assign hyperparameters to tune using the predefined dimensions.
* It's now possible to tune a custom number of layers for the [MLP][multilayerperceptron]
  model.
* If multiple BO calls share the best score, the one with the shortest
  training time is selected as winner (instead of the first).
* Fixed a bug where the BO could fail when custom dimensions where defined.
* Fixed a bug where [FeatureSelector][]
  could fail after repeated calls to fit.
* Fixed a bug where [FeatureGenerator][]
  didn't pass the correct data indices to its output.
* Performance improvements for the custom pipeline.
* Minor documentation fixes.


<a name="v4100"></a>
### Version 4.10.0

* Added the `holdout` data set to have an extra way of assessing a
  model's performance on a completely independent dataset. Read more
  in the [user_guide][data-sets].
* Complete rework of the [ensemble][ensembles] models.
* Support for dataframe indexing. Read more in the [user guide][indexing].
* New [plot_parshap][] plot to detect overfitting
  features.
* The new [create_dashboard][adaboost-create_dashboard] method makes analyzing
  the models even easier using a dashboard app.
* The [plot_feature_importance][]
  plot now also accepts estimators with coefficients.
* Added the [transform][adaboost-transform] method for models.
* Added the `threshold` parameter to the [evaluate][adaboost-evaluate] method.
* The `reset_predictions` method is deprecated in favour of the new
  [clear][atomclassifier-clear] method.
* Refactor of the model's [full_train][adaboost-full_train] method.
* The [merge][atomclassifier-merge] method is available for all trainers.
* Improvements in the trainer's pipeline.
* Training scores are now also saved to the mlflow run.
* Trying to change the data in a branch after fitting a model with it now
  raises an exception.
* Fixed a bug where the columns of array inputs were not ordered correctly.
* Fixed a bug where branches did not correctly act case-insensitive.
* Fixed a bug where the [export_pipeline][adaboost-export_pipeline]
  method for models would not export the transformers in the correct branch.


<a name="v491"></a>
### Version 4.9.1

* Changed the default cross-validation for [hyperparameter tuning][]
  from 5 to 1 to avoid errors with [deep learning models][deep-learning].
* Added clearer exception messages when a model's run failed.
* Fixed a bug where custom dimensions didn't show during
  [hyperparameter tuning][].
* Documentation improvements.


<a name="v490"></a>
### Version 4.9.0

* Drop support of [Python 3.6](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-360/).
* Added the HistGBM model.
* Improved print layout for [hyperparameter tuning][].
* The new [available_models][predefined-models] method returns an overview of
  the available predefined models.
* The [calibrate][adaboost-calibrate] and [cross_validate][adaboost-cross_validate]
  methods can no longer be accessed from the trainers.
* The `pipeline` parameter for the [prediction methods][predicting] is deprecated.
* Improved visualization of the [plot_rfecv][], [plot_successive_halving][] and 
  [plot_learning_curve][] methods.
* Sparse matrices are now accepted as input.
* Duplicate BO calls are no longer calculated.
* Improvement in performance of the [RNN][radiusnearestneighbors] model.
* Refactor of the model's `bo` attribute.
* Predefined hyperparameters have been updated to be consistent with sklearn's API.
* Fixed a bug where custom scalers were ignored by the models.
* Fixed a bug where the BO of certain models would crash with custom hyperparameters.
* Fixed a bug where duplicate column names could be generated from a custom transformer.
* Documentation improvements.


<a name="v480"></a>
### Version 4.8.0

* The [Encoder][] class now directly handles
  unknown categories encountered during fitting.
* The [Balancer][]and [Encoder][] classes now accept custom estimators for
  the `strategy` parameter.
* The new [merge][atomclassifier-merge] method enables the user to merge
  multiple atom instances into one.
* The dtype shrinking is moved from atom's initializers to the
  [shrink][atomclassifier-shrink] method.
* ATOM's [custom pipeline][pipeline] now handles transformers fitted on a
  subset of the dataset.
* The `column` parameter in the [distributions][atomclassifier-distributions]
  method is renamed to `columns` for continuity of the API.
* The `mae` criterion for the GBM model hyperparameter tuning is deprecated
  to be consistent with sklearn's API.
* Branches are now case-insensitive.
* Renaming a branch using an existing name now raises an exception.
* Fixed a bug where columns of type `category` broke the [Imputer][] class.
* Fixed a bug where predictions of the [Stacking][] ensemble crashed for
  branches with multiple transformers.
* The tables in the documentation now adapt to dark mode.


<a name="v473"></a>
### Version 4.7.3

* Fixed a bug where the conda-forge recipe couldn't install properly.


<a name="v472"></a>
### Version 4.7.2

* Fixed a bug where the pipeline failed for custom transformers that
  returned sparse matrices.
* Package requirements files are added to the installer.


<a name="v471"></a>
### Version 4.7.1

* Fixed a bug where the pip installer failed.
* Fixed a bug where categorical columns also selected datetime columns.


<a name="v470"></a>
### Version 4.7.0

* Launched our new [slack](https://join.slack.com/t/atom-alm7229/shared_invite/zt-upd8uc0z-LL63MzBWxFf5tVWOGCBY5g) channel!
* The new [FeatureExtractor][] class extracts useful features from datetime columns.
* The new [plot_det][] method plots a binary classifier's detection error tradeoff curve. 
* The [plot_partial_dependence][] is able to draw Individual Conditional Expectation (ICE) lines.
* The full traceback of exceptions encountered during training are now
  saved to the logger.
* [ATOMClassifier][] and [ATOMRegressor][] now convert the dtypes of the input
  data to the minimal allowed type for memory efficiency.
* The scoring method is renamed to [evaluate][atomclassifier-evaluate] to clarify its purpose.
* The `column` parameter in the [apply][atomclassifier-apply] method
  is renamed to `columns` for continuity of the API.
* Minor documentation improvements.


<a name="v460"></a>
### Version 4.6.0

* Added the [full_train][adaboost-full_train] method to retrieve an estimator trained
  on the complete dataset.
* The `score` method is now also able to calculate custom metrics on new data.
* Refactor of the [Imputer][] class. 
* Refactor of the [Encoder][] class to avoid errors for unknown classes and allow
  the input of missing values.
* The [clean][atomclassifier-clean] method no longer automatically
  encodes the target column for regression tasks.
* Creating a branch using a models' acronym as name now raises an exception.
* Fixed a bug where [CatBoost][] failed when `early_stopping` < 1.
* Fixed a bug where created pipelines had duplicated names.


<a name="v450"></a>
### Version 4.5.0

* Support of NLP pipelines. Read more in the [user guide][nlp].
* Integration of [mlflow](https://www.mlflow.org/) to track all models in the
  pipeline. Read more in the [user guide][tracking].
* The new [Normalizer][] class transforms features to a more Gaussian-like distribution.
* New [cross_validate][adaboost-cross_validate] method to evaluate the robustness
  of a pipeline using cross_validation.
* New [reset][atomclassifier-reset] method to go back to atom's initial state.
* Added the [Dummy][] model to compare other models with a simple baseline.
* New [plot_wordcloud][] and [plot_ngrams][] methods for text visualization.
* Plots now can return the figure object when `display=None`.
* The [Pruner][] class can now able to drop outliers
  based on the selection of multiple strategies.
* The new `shuffle` parameter in atom's initializer determines whether to
  shuffle the dataset.
* The trainers no longer require you to specify a model using the `models`
  parameter. If left to default, all [predefined models][] for that task are used.
* The [apply][atomclassifier-apply] method now accepts args and kwargs for the function.
* Refactor of the [evaluate][atomclassifier-evaluate] method.
* Refactor of the [export_pipeline][atomclassifier-export_pipeline] method.
* The parameters in the [Cleaner][] class have been refactored to better describe
  their function.
* The `train_sizes` parameter in [train_sizing][train-sizing] now accepts integer
  values to automatically create equally distributed splits in the training set.
* Refactor of [plot_pipeline][] to show models in the diagram as well.
* Refactor of the `bagging` parameter to the (more appropriate) name `n_bootstrap`.
* New option to exclude columns from a transformer adding `!` before their name.
* Fixed a bug where the [Pruner][] class failed if there were categorical columns
  in the dataset.
* Completely reworked documentation website.


<a name="v440"></a>
### Version 4.4.0

* New [apply][atomclassifier-apply] method to perform data transformations
  as function to the pipeline
* Added the [status][atomclassifier-status] method to save an overview of
  atom's branches and models to the logger.
* Improved the output messages for the [Imputer][] class.
* The dataset's columns can now be called directly from atom.
* The [distributions][atomclassifier-distributions] and [plot_distribution][]
  methods now ignore missing values.
* Fixed a bug where transformations could fail when columns were added to the
  dataset after initializing the pipeline.
* Fixed a bug where the [Cleaner][] class didn't drop
  columns consisting entirely of missing values when `drop_min_cardinality=True`.
* Fixed a bug where the winning model wasn't displayed correctly.
* Refactored the way transformers are added or removed from predicting methods.
* Improved documentation.


<a name="v430"></a>
### Version 4.3.0

* Possibility to [add][atomclassifier-add] custom transformers to the pipeline.
* The [export_pipeline][atomclassifier-export_pipeline] utility method exports
  atom's current pipeline to a sklearn object.
* New magic methods makes atom behave similarly to sklearn's [Pipeline][skpipeline].
* All [training approaches][training] can now be combined in the same atom instance.
* New [plot_relationships][], [plot_distribution][] and [plot_qq][] plots for data inspection.
* Complete rework of all the [shap plots][shap] to be consistent with their new API.
* Improvements for the [Scaler][] and [Pruner]([] classes.
* The acronym for custom models now defaults to the capital letters in the class' \_\_name__.
* Possibility to apply transformations on only a subset of the columns.
* Plots and methods now accept `winner` as model name.
* Fixed a bug where custom metrics didn't show the correct name.
* Fixed a bug where timers were not displayed correctly.
* Further compatibility with deep learning datasets.
* Large refactoring for performance optimization.
* Cleaner output of messages to the logger.
* Plots no longer show a default title.
* Minor bug fixes.


<a name="v421"></a>
### Version 4.2.1

* Bug fix where there was memory leakage in [successive halving][]
  and [train sizing][] pipelines.
* Improved documentation.


<a name="v420"></a>
### Version 4.2.0

* Possibility to add custom models to the pipeline using [ATOMModel][].
* Compatibility with [deep learning][] models.
* New branch system for different data pipelines. Read more in the [user guide][branches].
* Use the [canvas][atomclassifier-canvas] contextmanager to draw multiple plots in one figure.
* New [voting][voting] and [stacking][] ensemble techniques.
* New [get_class_weight][atomclassifier-get_class_weight] utility method.
* New Sequential Feature Selection strategy for the [FeatureSelector][].
* Added the `sample_weight` parameter to the `score` method.
* New ways to initialize the data in the `training` instances.
* The `test_size` parameter now also allows integer values.
* Renamed categories to classes to be consistent with sklearn's API.
* The class property now returns a pd.DataFrame of the number of rows per target class
  in the train, test and complete dataset.
* Possibility to add custom parameters to an estimator's fit method through `est_params`.
* The [successive halving][] and [train sizing][] approaches now both allow subsequent
  runs from atom without losing the information from previous runs.
* Bug fix where ATOMLoader wouldn't encode the target column during transformation.
* Added the [Deep learning][example-deep-learning], [Ensembles][example-ensembles]
  and [Utilities][example-utilities] example notebooks.
* Support for [python 3.9](https://www.python.org/downloads/release/python-390/).


<a name="v410"></a>
### Version 4.1.0

* New `est_params` parameter to customize the parameters in every model's estimator.
* Following skopt's API, the `n_random_starts` parameter to specify the number
  of random trials is deprecated in favour of `n_initial_points`.
* The [Balancer][] class now allows you to use any of the
  strategies from [imblearn](https://imbalanced-learn.readthedocs.io/en/stable/index.html).
* New utility attributes to inspect the dataset.
* Four new models: CatNB, CNB, ARD and RNN.
* Added the models section to the documentation.
* Small changes in log outputs.
* Bug fixes and performance improvements.


<a name="v401"></a>
### Version 4.0.1

* Bug fix where the [FeatureGenerator][] was not deterministic for a fixed random state.
* Bug fix where subsequent runs with the same metric failed.
* Added the [license][mit-license] file to the package's installer.
* Typo fixes in documentation.


<a name="v400"></a>
### Version 4.0.0

* Bayesian optimization package changed from [GpyOpt](http://sheffieldml.github.io/GPyOpt/)
  to [skopt](https://scikit-optimize.github.io/stable/).
* Complete revision of the model's hyperparameters.
* Four [SHAP plots][shap] can now be called directly from an ATOM pipeline.
* Two new plots for regression tasks.
* New [plot_pipeline][] and `pipeline` attribute to access all transformers. 
* Possibility to determine transformer parameters per method.
* New [calibrate][adaboost-calibrate] and [plot_calibration][] methods.
* Metrics can now be added as scorers or functions with signature metric(y, y_pred, **kwargs).
* Implementation of [multi-metric runs][].
* Possibility to choose which metric to plot.
* Early stopping for models that allow in-training validation.
* Added the `ATOMLoader` function to load any saved pickle instance.
* The "remove" strategy in the data cleaning parameters is deprecated in favour of "drop".
* Implemented the dfs strategy in [FeatureGenerator][].
* All training classes now inherit from BaseEstimator.
* Added multiple new example notebooks.
* Tests coverage up to 100%.
* Completely new documentation page.
* Bug fixes and performance improvements.
